‘al Vabos beth trot Coe
. ,

804 NM | bees
YY Negative Culture:

. eho toaeber Vaticay
Figg’ “th . | IOHone ate atten | CE Ba ge tye yr att
: eh eieve ny thea MUty OF the stulente ty bec eee: \
, q eqatre attitude This culture blames students fear lack

uJ yy as on a tar oy ote
toy scour ages collaboration

d haracteristics or Nature of Education:

Qs , Qn the basis of various definitions of education the varus fs

nd characteristics af education are as follows
1 Education is aim onented

i
2. Education is the process to be conducted with planning
Flin 3. Education Is a continuous process
a . 4 Education is a effect oriented process
, 5. Education is a development process. All round develoon
div of students is expected in the process
ations 6. Education process is bipolar. Teacher and students are

poles of education.
7. Education process is also called as tnpolar. Teacher

students are two poles and study is third pole
Education is a psychological process.

Education is a social process.
Spiritual

\© 90

Professional Moral

Social Effective

All round
development
through
education

Cognitive

Cultural

Physical

Language
. 1.6: All Round Development Throu
ulture.

h Educatiot
Sand skis of getting work done ¢
ize)

al
ie has to m
ment © : met USE his authority Others '§ acquir
enn rules The objective can While w, rkin €d in
phe MAHATeMeNt with self disciphin e fulfilled b 9 ang
‘ - eis

anyent School 1s the m CONsidereg tend it

_ maredé ain and ob
" oy The educational objectives ar important fa @ the
at ' © achieved h Ctor of
on on wn the school Thus it 45 necessa thou the work

oa ement of sno work for achieving pre-decides rave

ve” stability of school and its Progress. Schoo! ig Objectives 6
,e eqciety and is one institute created by society Tniature o
: * ENE nature ¢

‘pool work IS to give knowledge formally to new
s 3 their life successfully. Hence it is necessary to

pit

gstematically and ideally.
2.3 school Management

2.3.4 School Management: Concept
B the work of school begins with school management so it is a
intal point of school work. First the management committee
famed and the people having equal ideology, emotions an
imagination come together to fulfil the objectives. The committe
which consists Of some office bearers and some members is calle
management committee. This committee works in a direction |
achieve objectives. The function of management is to take care
maintenance of the school and to head towards progress of scho
ittivities by controlling them in a proper way. For example, to acqui
lind for school building, to collect funds for ground and finane
i “ealings, to collect accumulated funds. Management committee h
‘0 perform various works helpful for educational progress as pert

‘cal needs and conditions.

me education is provided by teachers

ag gement committee can not interfere In scho™™ nd
‘INipal is a link between management committee a ager

“ministrati that the meaning of man

so pert ‘on. In brief, we can say tHe schoo facilities provid

or Shoo general work for beginning aim is 10 administer 2

thelon « are progress of the school. evelopment of society *
nh, CNool as per the objectives ©

Generation fc
do school wor

and the principal
hool teaching.

Natig,